una semana Rahim al hamdulillah he no
matter who and Serena who Anastasio when
I was a builder him ensure will be
unforeseen a woman say yeah I'm a Nina
Maria de la Fidele moodily de la Madrid
who father heard the other one inhale
allahu la sharika lah whatcha doin uh
muhammadan abduhu wa rasuluh some Allahu
alayhi wa ala aalihi wa sahbihi wa
suleman Tasneem and kathira am i bad so
al hamdulillah were at hadith number two
from imam now is 40 hadith now hadith
number two is an actual very special
hadith inside imam now is for the hadith
you'll notice that in the first happy
that we studied the hadith in Amman our
Madhuban yet that was the very first
hadith that imam bukhari rahim allah
started his sahi with and then the
hadith were studying tonight the second
hadith in imam now is 40 this is the
first hadith that in my Muslim our high
Mahalo started off his sake with and
what makes this hadith so unique and so
special is that this hadith actually has
a title given to it so this hadith is
known as the hadith of gibreel and this
is wengie breathing saddam he came to
the messenger of allah salallahu alayhi
wa sallam and he asked him a series of
questions now just to give you an
introduction if you were to look at this
hadith inside so a Muslim the hadith
actually starts off by saying that the
messenger of allah salallahu alaihe
salam was one day sitting with one of
his with his was sitting with his
companions and he asked them do any of
you have any questions do any of you
have any questions and then the cyber of
Dalaran home due to them being shy due
to them you know holding the messenger
of allah says allah means such reverence
they were too shy to ask any of the
questions that were on their mind
and it was at that time that gibreel Ali
Saddam he came and he asked the
messenger of allah allah allah some some
questions now in some important things
to understand about this hadith as a
precursor
number one is that by looking at this
hadith you'll notice something very very
important
again this was emphasized in the first
hadith as well but when it comes to the
preservation of hadith hadith were not
preserved like the Quran in the sense
that yes they were preserved
authentically and you have authentic
chains of narrations however when it
comes to wordings and meanings the Quran
is preserved in wording and in meaning
whereas the student of the messenger of
allah sallallahu Salam is only preserved
in meaning is only preserved in meaning
meaning that the Sahaba Adela Han home
took it upon themselves that whenever
they saw fit they would change up the
wordings of the narrations now the
condition that they would apply is that
the meaning would not change so even
though the words may change they would
use synonymous words to imply what the
messenger of allah sallallahu sallam
said and now it is not clear in any
other hadith than in this hadith of
jewbilee because you'll find this hadith
obedient it is narrated by so many of
the companions the most famous version
is the version we'll be studying today
which is the version of omen of the
kitab as reported in sahih muslim but
this hadith is also narrated by abu
huraira it was reported by Abdullah bin
Rama it was reported by abu manacle
harvest Abdul Hassan my gosh Adi and in
many of the other companions so these
narrations they go on to show us that
very important point that the experience
of hadith was not like the experience of
the Quran the experience of the Quran
was something which was divinely
preserved in wording and in meaning
whereas the experience of the hadith was
a very human-like experience because
that what that's what they were trying
to portray which was understanding the
Quran in light of the messenger of allah
sallallahu alayhi wa sallam so the
messenger of allah salam being a human
being therefore the hadith also became a
human-like experience now when you look
at this hadith inside Sahih al-bukhari
look at this hadith inside and out of
Kootenay and the other places where it
is narrated and that's when you actually
come to see some of these major
differences now what were the
differences within light I think we ever
have an Advanced Studies class then we
can go into them but for now the time
being the only important thing to know
is that there are differences in the
wordings of the hadith while the meaning
of the Hadees
is the same so now let's actually get
into the wording of the hadith so imam
no we are him allah he goes on to say
also on the authority of unmodeled
allahu anhu who said while while we were
one day sitting with the messenger of
allah salallahu alaihe salam there
appeared before us a man dressed in
extremely white clothes with very black
hair no traces of journeying were
visible on him and none of us knew him
he sat down close by the prophet
salallahu alayhi wa sallam rested his
knee against his thighs and said o
muhammad informed me about islam said
the messenger of allah salallahu alaihe
salam islam is that you should testify
that there is no one worthy that there's
no deity save allah and that muhammad is
his messenger that you should perform
salah / pay the zakah and there we go
pay their zakah fast during Ramadan and
perform Hajj to the house if you can
find a way to it said he the man you
have spoken truly we were astonished at
this thus questioning him thus
questioning him and telling him that he
was right but he went on to say informed
me about Iman he The Messenger of Allah
says Allah answered it is that you
believe in Allah and his angels and his
books and his messengers and in the last
day and in faith both in its good and
it's evil aspects he said you have
spoken truly then he the man said inform
me about a son he the Messenger of Allah
saw seldom answered it is that you
should serve Allah as though you could
see him for though you cannot see him
yet he sees you he said inform me about
the hour he the Messenger of Allah saw
salem said about the one questioned
knows no more than the questioner so he
said well informed me about the signs
thereof said he that there that the
slave girl will give birth to her
mistress that you will see the
barefooted one the naked the destitute
the herdsmen of sheep competing with one
another in raising lofty buildings
thereupon the man went off I waited a
while and then he the messenger of allah
sallallahu wasallam said o rama do you
know who the questioner was I replied
Allah and His Messenger know best
he said that was G Breen he came to
teach you your religion he came to teach
you your religion and is reported in
Sahih Muslim so now with that having
being said you have a context in terms
of what was happening before this visit
of Jian actually took place
so the Sahaba adela on home they're
sitting with the messenger of allah
salallahu said them and he's asking them
ask me your questions so that I can
answer them for you
now this shows us a very important point
over here from two ways number one the
eagerness of the messenger of allah
sallallahu alayhi wa sallam and wanting
to teach the people there Dean so the
messenger of allah salaam was not only
inspired through the quran which would
he would relate to the people but
likewise the messenger of allah star
salam would take time to sit with the
people and address the questions that
they have and you'll notice that this
mode of communication where one asks a
question and it is answered is one of
the most effective methods and that is
why you find this method in the quran a
lot as well that the messenger son was
asked about a question and then the
quran would come and reveal an answer so
you'll find many and many of these
verses that they all say yes alone i can
that they ask you about the following
and then the messenger of allah says
allah is told cool and then go on to say
the following so it shows you the
effective teaching method so likewise
when an individual is trying to
communicate rather than always dictating
as a teacher you also want to open up
the floor for people to ask questions as
well because you'll notice that a
question an individual asks is more
likely to be retained the answer then
the individual who is just dictating to
another individual that is the
importance of interaction and here you
see that the messenger Allah says Salam
not only coming to teach Deen but also
coming to teach effective methods of
communication so when you look at the
way the Messenger of Allah said on some
taught the Deen it was the best way an
individual can teach altogether so that
would be like an interest topic of
discussion you know what are the methods
that the messenger of allah saw them
used in order to effectively you know
convey the religion of allah subhana WA
Ta'ala so you have you know dictating to
them you have questions and answers you
have the giving of examples and other
things that the messenger of allah salla
Mohonasen amused
number two the second thing you'll
notice about this hadith is that why is
there so much emphasis put on the
corruption of gibreel then when you look
at the hadith they talk about him being
an extremely white clothing him having
extremely black hair him sitting in a
very particular position
this was the wisdom of Allah subhana WA
Ta'ala that gibreel came in such a
manner that his appearance made it a
reason for them for it for this hadith
to be remembered so this shows us again
the importance of introducing concepts
that will make people remember them so
this can done either by powerful
anecdotes
so in our day and age you'll notice that
speakers usually start off with stories
or they'll start off with a joke or
they'll start off with a personal
experience those are personal anecdotes
here the example that allah subhanaw
taala and his messenger sallallahu
lucidum use is using the example of
gibreel that coming in a mode coming in
a fashion coming in a manner that was
very very unique and that is what this
caused the Sahaba of the allahu anhu to
retain this important hadith and that is
why you find so many of the different
companions they narrated this hadith
because of this unique incident that
took place and that is why there's so
much emphasis that is actually placed on
Jibril's manners on the way that he was
dressed and the way that he sat so now
let us look at the very first thing that
we is mentioned he said that there
appeared before us a man dressed
extremely in white clothes dressed
extremely in white clothes on send them
out of the allahu allah she narrates
that the favorite clothing of the
messenger of allah salallahu alaihe
salam was the striped white clothing was
the striped white clothing so this shows
us that gibreel is coming in the up in
an appearance that is pleasing to the
messenger of allah sallallahu alayhi wa
sallam and this goes on to teach us
etiquettes that a student should have
with the teacher as well as indicates
that the students should have with the
teacher as well particularly with white
clothing amativeness khattab
radhi'allahu anhu during his time he
actually commanded the teachers of the
quran that they had to wear white so
during the time of Oberyn of khattab
radhi'allahu anhu if you were to see a
quran teacher he would be forced to a
certain degree that he would have to
wear white in order to teach the Quran
because the color white is a color of
purity and this is why you see that the
messenger of allah said i'm one
would do the job if T tough that they do
have starting up the Salah one of the
doors that The Messenger of Allah so
Allah - Allah would make is the one
acronym that the noble Hetalia coming in
October of alumina Denis they're
purifying me from my sins and mistakes
just like a white garment is purified
from the dirt that is on it that is
white garment it will get dirt on it and
it appear it is purified and it looks
fresh and it looks new again similarly
that is the way that we ask Allah o
Allah to purify us of our sins so this
garment of whiteness it is there to
manifest purity it is there to manifest
you know cleanliness and this is
something that as a Muslim and
particularly a position of authority
should always retain and that is why on
Allah there's such a heavy emphasis on
the conduct of the teacher and the
conduct of the student then what makes
the student of knowledge and what makes
the eylem different is not only the way
that they speak but it is also the way
that they conducted themselves and that
is why there is such a big tradition on
etiquettes of the student and etiquettes
of the chef so you'll find the scholars
like how people value daddy you know
they'll write books on the etiquettes of
the student of knowledge and you find it
in the JAMA writing etiquettes of the
student of knowledge because the student
of knowledge is supposed to take his
conduct and his character to the next
level and one of the ways he does that
is that when he comes to a gathering of
knowledge he wears his best clothing he
wears his best clothing and he puts on
his best fragrance and he grooms himself
combing his beard and brushing his hair
and making sure that he looks
presentable and this was from the
etiquettes of our predecessors had been
above the law on Homa whenever he would
go and teach his students he would
always make sure actually this is
something interesting a lot of people
don't know this about a blobbin
ambassador londo MA but he would make it
a point to shower and look his best in
two instances instance number one before
he is going out to teach so every time
i'm philippine ambassador the law in
Houma is going out to teach he would
make take a shower put on his best
fragrance put on his best clothes and
then he would go out to teach and then
the second time he would do that is when
he would be returning back to his home
so when he's returning back
his home he would make sure that he
would use the Miss Rock put on his
fragrance if he's able to go and take a
shower you take a shower before
returning back to his wife and then he
won't ask him yeah I'm Bella Pina Bausch
why do you do this and he said that
Allah subhana WA Ta'ala commanded this
for the women that they should portray
themselves to the husband in a pleasing
manner and Allah subhana WA Ta'ala
commands the men in the Quran that when
a Honda mifflin edema and a Heena that
for the women is that which the the for
the women is similar to that which they
have been commanded with as well so just
like Allah subhana WA Ta'ala commanded
the women to take care of their
appearance in front of their husbands
similarly the men are required to take
care of their appearance in front of the
women folk as well so that is from the
etiquette some of the Omnibus similarly
in magmatic
the exact same thing was narrated from
him that before he would go ahead and
teach he would wear his best clothing he
would wear his best clothing so this
concept of wearing white clothing it has
two components to it component number
one is that uh you know the etiquettes
of a student of knowledge or someone who
you know of knowledge is that it is
preferred for them to wear white
clothing it is preferred for them to
wear white clothing and then number two
is that white represents cleanliness
white represents cleanliness then it
goes on to say that he had very black
hair
he had very black hair now the scholars
differed is what is the wisdom behind
the mentioning of very black hair now
the obvious answer as some of them
hadith on mentioned is that this was
naturally what he had but what becomes
apparent from this hadith is that he had
long hair and he didn't have short hair
because had he had short hair then you
know you don't necessarily notice the
color of hair but when it is long you
focus on the color of the hair because
it sticks out and it stands out so
scholars use this hadith to indicate
that when an individual he has hair he
should groom it properly if I mean we're
not gonna get into this teleph of you
know what is the ruling on dyeing if a
person has white hair should they dye
the white hair or not we're not going to
get into that right now
but they said that from the wisdom of
the black hair being mentioned over here
is that his appearance stuck out again
that it was black it was well it was
well groomed it was shiny mention that
it was oiled and so on and so forth and
then it mentions again and note rose
traces of journey ink were visible upon
him no traces of journeying were visible
upon him now the reason why this is
mentioned in the hadith itself is
because the Sahaba of the Allah on whom
they became very I guess flabbergasted
to a certain degree that this man is
coming into this gathering he's not
sitting at the outskirts of the gather
but rather he's coming as close as
possible to can be and he's wearing this
extremely white clothing which would
show that you know he had recently
changed or recently put these clothes on
because if he had travelled there would
have been some remnants of traveling
maybe his clothes would looked creased
up maybe there would be some dust or
some dirt on it but we did not see this
at all so there's no element of showing
that he is journey and at the same time
none of the Sahaba of the allahu anhum
recognized him and that is why he went
on to say and none of us knew him and
none of us knew him so now everything
all of this buildup is happening why to
make sure that this special event will
be remembered by the Sahaba radiyaallahu
anhu so that they can dictate it to the
further generations that come to make it
a memorable event for them to make it a
remember event for them so he goes on to
say and he sat down close by the prophet
sallallahu alayhi wa sallam and this is
another etiquette that you'll notice
that unfortunately a lot of the Muslims
have abandoned particularly on the day
of Jummah so on the day of Jummah one of
these students have coming to the Masjid
is that you come to the front of the
Masjid and sit as close as you possibly
can to the Khateeb but in our day and
age you'll find that subhanAllah
regardless of how early or later you're
coming you'll find individuals that want
to sit on the back and as soon as the
salah is over they want to you know
leave right away but Allah subhana WA
Ta'ala has put special reward in the
front rows this is not only for Salah
but also in terms of interaction and
this is what Jeanine came to show that
as a student of knowledge someone who is
dedicated he'll always want to try to
find a place which is close and and in
front of the teacher himself the second
get that gibreel goes on to show us is
that he rested his knee against his
thigh now at this portion the wordings
of the hadith actually changed because
if he noticed the narration of Abdullah
ibn Abbas and abdullah bin omar and
actually mentions that gibreel placed
his hand on the thigh of the messenger
of allah so asana Imam and know you're a
milliner Hodja
they said that no this is not the case
but rather Jablin he put his hand on his
own psyche he put his hand on his own
thigh now in terms of this concept of
being so close that they are touching
this is to show that that is how close
the student of knowledge should be to
his teacher that it shouldn't be that
the teacher is required to shout and
speak to the gathering in such a manner
but rather even if the teacher was just
a whisper then the students are able to
hear what the teacher is saying the
students are able to hear what the
teacher is saying so now we actually get
to the very first question we get to the
very first question he goes on to say a
kabillion in Islam and for me about
Islam now this is the version that that
Imam Muslim has however you look at the
verses in sahih al-bukhari i look at the
other versions and actually starts off
with a building on an imam that informed
me about Eman informed me about Eman and
you'll notice that this concept of
informed me about Iman are starting off
with Iman first as actually the Quranic
method is actually the Quranic model
that the Quran will mention Eman first
before it mentions Islam now for our
topic of discussion what is the
distinction between the two the
distinction between the two is that when
in this hadith when you see Islam Islam
is filled with physical elements so it
is about saying the Shahada
it is about performing the salaah it is
about giving this occur it is about
fasting in Ramadan it is about going for
Hajj so it is very physical whereas when
you look at Iman in this hadith you'll
come to see that email it's something
that is very spiritual it is very
theoretical and it is not something that
has a direct implication in action and
in Islam the internal always takes
precedence over the external that a
person can say the Shahada
but if up and until they have in mind
inside of their heart that Shahada is
not worth anything and they have to be
brought together so in this version the
version of say Muslim you see that Islam
is actually mentioned first Islam is
actually mentioned first so now let us
look what the messenger of allah
salallahu alaihe salam he mentions he
mentions that islam is that you should
testify that there is no deity save
allah and that muhammad is his messenger
that you should perform the salah pay
the zakah fast during Ramadan and
perform the Hajj you know go to to Hajj
if you are able to now this concept of
the pillars of Islam it's actually
coming up in the next hadith so when we
study hadith number three is the Haditha
of abdullah bin ahmad allah in houma
dunya Islamorada thumps that islam is
built upon five principles who believe
that its explanation for that hadith
buildin lisanna but what we're going to
derive over here is from this hadith it
becomes very clear that the general case
scenario is that Islam and Iman are two
different components Islam and Iman are
two different components and it's very
important to understand this principle
when you read the Quran that the
principle states that Islam and Iman
that when they're mentioned individually
they have the exact same meaning but
when they're mentioned together that is
when the meaning changes so the
principle states at the edge to Maha if
Taraka was after akka each Tama
meaning that in the Quran whenever you
find the term Islam or whenever you
tougher to find the term Eman they mean
the exact same thing unless they are
mentioned together unless they are
mentioned together and then when they
are mentioned together that is when they
have different and separate and unique
meanings so let us take a look at the
linguistic meanings of both of them
first so Islam linguistically means and
it's this lamp it means to submit to
Allah subhana WA Ta'ala and then the
conventional shuddery definition is what
we just mentioned now the linguistic
definition of Iman this has been a cause
of great controversy this has been a
cause of great controversy for if you
were to look at the very first
differences of opinions and the very
first Estela fact that took place during
the time of the Companions you would
notice that it was really
the issues of Iman so if you look at the
offshoot of the haulage why did they
come about it was because of their
understanding of Iman and she holds time
of the same Allah he mentions a very
important principle he says that when
you look at words of the Arabic language
that have a showery connotation to them
the surely connotation is the only one
that becomes relevant and then one
ignores the linguistic definition behind
it now what does this actually mean what
this actually means is that Islam as we
came to know it came in the Arabic
language and the words that were used
while they're in the Arabic language
will have multiple usages so the usages
that the Shariah came to use are the
ones that the Muslims should pay
attention to and they should not
particularly look at the linguistic
definitions and you'll notice that the
position of a national Jamaa is that
they give preference to this charity
definition of words whereas the
offshoots the different sects of Islam
they gave preference to the linguistic
meanings of those words and this becomes
very important that when you study the
topic of Iman is it relevant to look at
what the term Eman linguistically means
and the answer to that according to
shake Hoda simultaneous is that no it's
not relevant because the messenger of
allah salaam clearly came to explain
what a man is so as long as we have the
Shara a definition we do not need to
look at what the linguistic definition
is and how it ties in to the Sharia the
only times you would need that is that
when you have a non shuttle usage of a
word that is being introduced into the
Sharia then you would look at the
linguistic usage and then you would see
how it applies then you would see how it
applies now for the sake of argument for
the sake of argument just to give you an
introduction to this you will notice
that even say Nia rahimullah was you
know a very strong debater on these
matters then when it came to issues of
Iman you notice that his module for
tower there's a whole volume just on the
topic of Iman and then in terms of his
writings in terms of his separate books
you actually
that he writes two or three different
books on Iman the largest of them being
kitab aneema here a whole book just on
the topic of Iman and the reason why it
is so important to understand this topic
is because it was the distinguishing
factor then what will keep the person
inside the fold of Islam and what will
take him outside the fold of Islam so
this goes on to show the role of doubts
goes on to show the role of since going
to the show the roles of many other
things
so let us firstly start off by
describing and defining this concept of
Iman so I'm not going to go into the
linguistic definition but she coolest
and Samia he argues that the linguistic
definition of a man as is Anna Quran and
it is not at the stick that's going to
go into like linguistics were not going
to get into that but in terms of what is
of benefit to us when a person tells us
what is it that makes a person a
believer it is very important to
understand the following according to
Allison or Gemma in order for a person
to have faith and we considered a
believer three components need to be
present three components need to be
present
number one is belief in the heart number
one is belief in the heart number two is
statements of the tongue number two is
statements of the tongue and number
three is actions of the lips number
three is actions of the limbs and then
what you want to find out now is what is
the absolute minimum that is required
for an individual to stay within the
fold of Islam what is the absolute
minimum for an individual to stay within
the fold of Islam so the first thing
that we recognize is that what brings an
individual inside the fold of Islam is
two things number one belief in his
heart and that belief in the heart is
followed by the statement of the Shahada
if either of the two is missing then
that belief is deficient that belief is
deficient
now what keeps a person inside the fold
of Islam is the minimum required actions
is the minimum required actions now this
is something that our predecessors
differed over that what is the minimum
required actions that are required to
keep an individual inside the fold of
Islam and Allah subhana WA Ta'ala knows
best but if we were to look at
the opinions of the various predecessors
it seems that the minimum amount of
action that is required from the
individual is the five pillars of Islam
is the five pillars of Islam that if an
individual intentionally misses any of
the five pillars of Islam then this is
enough to take him outside the fold of
Islam then if he misses any of the five
pillars of Islam intentionally then this
is it enough to take him outside the
fold of Islam now you'll find very
explicit
you know statements for the salah that
abdullah bashar click from the table i
mean he narrates that the Sahaba Allah
on whom did not consider the abandonment
of anything to be covered except for the
Salah and then you'll find you know abu
bakr radiallahu anhu when it comes to
the whole public that when it comes to
the words of apostasy then anyone who
differentiates between Salah and zakah
you know has no share of Islam so you'll
find these various narrations now what
is important for our discussion is that
if we want to avoid all of the tea
laughs then this is the opinion that we
follow then what is required for an
individual to stay inside the fold of
Islam to not be a eternally condemned to
the Hellfire when he dies is that he
tries his utmost best to live up to the
five pillars of Islam that he should be
you know performing his Salah he should
be performing his zakah he should be
fasting the Ramadan and he should be
trying his best to go for Hajj if he
intentionally neglects any of them then
it is you know worried for this
individual that he might fall into a
state of disbelief that could take him
outside the fold of Islam now that is
the absolute minimum that is required
that is the absolute minimum that is
required in order to avoid all of the
Xterra fat and you'll find that in terms
of evolution the wal Jamaa in terms of
valid differences of opinion then the
very minimal they said is that a person
you know may be negligible of his zakat
may be negligible of his fasting may be
negligible when it comes to his hatch
but from the appearance of a Sunnah wal
Jamaa none of the scholars ever allowed
someone to be negligible of their salah
the second he became negligible of his
salah that is when they expelled that
individual from outside the fold of
islam they expelled that individual from
outside the four
of Islam so the key differentiations
between the arcade of indiscernible
Jamar and the other different sects when
it comes to Eman is two things number
one that actions are a part of Eman and
number two that Eman actually fluctuates
actions are part of Eman and that
Eman actually fluctuates and that if you
were to look at the various other sects
that came about from them or the model
gia from them are the Huaraz from them
you know are all the other sects that
came about they differed with the Sunnah
wal Jamaa on these particular issues
then our actions are part of email and
the number two this Eman actually
fluctuate or not does email actually
fluctuate or not now in terms of now for
our intentions and purposes let us go
into the very first concept where he
says that to have Iman to have Iman it
the first of them is and took my novella
it is to believe in allah subhana wa
ta'ala it is to believe in allah
subhanaw taala
now what is it that the messenger of
allah sallallahu either synonym is
trying to get across in this narration
that is of you know very big importance
to us now you'll notice that a lot of
times as an individual you will feel
that your Eman goes down you will feel
that your Eman goes down and this is
something normal that everyone's Eman
will fluctuate it will go high and low
but what people make a mistake is that
when they want to judge the level of
their email they do it purely based upon
how they feel so for example one day an
individual will sleep very late and
he'll get very little sleep he won't
have breakfast and then by midday he'll
notice that he actually has very little
energy so when it comes time for salat
although he's feeling you know very very
tired and then he understands this very
you know being very lethargic and being
very tired for having low iman in
perspective that is not how you judge a
man the way you judge your level of Iman
is based upon the level of actions that
you're doing so if an individual is
embarking upon sin regardless of how he
fills it up on the inside his Eman is
decreasing and likewise if an indie
he may feel low levels of energy but as
long as he's doing good and righteous
deeds and abstaining from bad deeds his
Eman is still high so now this is where
the trap of Shaitaan actually comes into
play that what Shaitaan wants you to
think is that the way you feel this you
know manifests the level of your email
but according to the Creed of Anderson
or Jemma that is not the case but rather
your Eman is defined by your level of
action so next time you feel that you're
a man is actually low what you want to
look at rather than focusing on how you
feel is focus on the actions that you're
doing then if you're falling into sin
this is an indication that your Eman is
low if you're staying away from those
things which are compulsion upon you
this is a sign that your email is low
however if you're abstaining from sin
and you're doing those deeds which are
mandatory upon you then build in 19 or
Eman is still intact and don't let
Shaitaan get the best of you don't let
to get to change Shaitaan get the best
of you so he goes on to the very first
concept in terms of believing in Allah
subhana WA Ta'ala and this leads us into
our discussion what are the things that
are required for an individual to know
to properly believe in allah subhanaw
taala
what are the things that are required
for an individual to believe in Allah
subhana WA Ta'ala so when you do want to
look into the Quran the term that the
Quran uses is Eman so anytime the word
Iman is used it is used as a cinnamon
synonym of belief in Allah subhana WA
Ta'ala but you'll notice that as time
goes on and even in the terminology of
the messenger of allah sallallahu I will
send up another term is introduced and
that term is tell hate that is term is
the heat so you'll find inside the Sun
of The Messenger of Allah Senna and this
is important give a question to know
that if anyone ever asks you know is the
term tawheed mentioned in the Sunnah of
the messenger of allah sorry Salem the
answer to that is yes the answer to that
is yes just by a show of hands
did anyone here a 10 light of guidance
in 2010 we have 1 2 3 4 5 6 so we have 7
people here that attend the light of
guidance this is for you what are the
instances where the terms are haters
mentioned in the son of the Apostles
Allah this is like going backward 3
years now we're going back three years
when is the term tawheed
mentioned in the sunnah of the prophet
sallallaahu is enough go ahead excellent
right
do you remember what that so happy was
absent it was more either Benjamin so
more adam in german he was sent by the
messenger of allah sallallahu and he
will send them to the land of yemen and
the messenger of allah so aloha and he
was said um he tells him in the catotti
coleman Manhattan in Kitsap they indeed
you will come across a people from the
al-kitab and this is very interesting
over here because the messenger of allah
system goes on to tell them that let the
first thing that you teach them is
tawheed let the first thing that you
teach them is to heed so generally
speaking when we refer to you know the
al-kitab the jews and the christians we
generally refer to them as the
monotheistic faiths but here the
messenger Veloster saddam is teaching us
the exact opposite that yes they are the
Ahmadiyya type in the sense that they
were given revelation and we share
profits with them but they have diverted
from tawheed so he says that the first
thing that you teach them is to hate
that the first thing that you teach them
is nothing so this is the first evidence
this is the first evidence that is
mentioned inside Sahih al-bukhari anyone
remember number 2 second instance when
tawheed is mentioned in the Sunnah of
the messenger of allah saw sana I'll
give you two hints think about Jabbar
and think about Hajj go ahead go ahead
the term tur he does not mention there
the chapter hate is not mentioned the
top lies as a cart but the concept of
tawheed is there but we're talking about
the word tawheed or its derivatives
right the hint was
jabber and hadith of Hajj so when does
an individual shoulders are hidden Hajj
during the talbiya excellent
so Jabra the LA are new reports as is
instance I Muslim that when this Jabara
Dalarna went out for Hajj Vinod you
better heed Vinod you better read that
he called out with tawheed meaning that
when they were saying that talbiya that
Elvia is an expression of tawheed so
this is the second example
that the term to hate is used in the
Sunnah of the messenger of allah say
salam the third and last example the
famous story of an individual that he
was an individual that was sinful yet he
feared allah subhanho wa taala so he
tells his family he tells his community
members that when i pass away
what i want you to do is i want you to
take my body i want you to burn it and
on the windy day throw out the ashes
throw out the ashes there on the day of
judgment allah subhanaw taala he asks
this individual you know why did you do
this why did you tell them to burn your
body and spread out the ashes and he
says o allah it was out of fear of you
it was out of fear of you now here's
what's interesting is that while this
individual was sinful in the muslims of
imam and how does the messenger of allah
saw I saw them describe him Volumnia I'm
a liar capo Elector hate that he did not
do any act of goodness
except for tawheed meaning that he did
not affiliate any partners with allah
subhanho wa taala so now let us get into
this discussion that we're not talking
about Tawhid
what does thought he'd actually mean in
its specific sense and in its general
sense so the general meaning of Saheed
is that it is to give Allah subhana WA
Ta'ala his D right it is to give allah
subhanaw taala
his due right and the way we give allah
subhanho wa taala his do right is in
theory and is in application so you'll
notice that when you talk about the heat
some of the scholars divided to hate
into two categories
the reason they divide into two
categories is because they were looking
at theory and application then you'll
find some of the scholars of Islam that
divided the Qatar hate into three
categories they divided the height into
three categories and the way they did it
is that two of them were theoretical and
one of them was an application so let us
look at the categorization of three just
for argument's sake because that is the
ones that people find usually
problematic so the first question we
want to arise is how important is this
categorization of three and the number
two is who is the first individual to
come up with this categorization of
three who is the first individual to
three so the most important thing to
understand is that when you talk about
sahith
in terms of numbering categorizations
your classifications is irrelevant we
are not concerned about do defines our
hate into one defining the two defining
the three it is irrelevant what we are
concerned about or all of these
components actually being covered and
the three most important components
being that you believe in the oneness of
allah subhanho wa taala in his lordship
in his little obeah so that allah
subhanallah is the only creator the
sustainer the reckoner all of these
attributes of allah subhana wa ta'ala
are met then number two is that Allah
subhana WA Ta'ala is the only one worthy
of worship that this is the owner here
of Allah subhana WA Ta'ala that all acts
of worship are directed towards allah
subhanho wa taala and then the third and
last one and the third and last one that
we worship Allah subhana WA Ta'ala
through his beautiful names and his
attributes we worship Allah subhana WA
Ta'ala through his beautiful names and
attributes so as long as an individual
is fulfilling these three rights of
Allah subhana WA Ta'ala regardless of
how many classifications or
categorizations he puts them into is
completely irrelevant because we are
more concerned with what the Sharia came
with rather than the classifications
themselves these classifications are
just there to facilitate teaching and to
facilitate understanding
number two is now when did in the
history of Islam when is the first time
we actually see these categorizations so
the first thing we want to understand is
that these terms rouble beer and aloo
here and a small C fact were actually
used during the time of the predecessors
so in the second generation you find
these words being used regularly you
find these words being used regularly so
you know you'll find books being written
about Qatar but the small C fats you
find Qatar boots ahead of imam bukhari
discussing the small C fats and it
actually shows that even in Mallen behad
rahim allah i started using this term
kitab at our head or the term
tawheed inside of his book the very last
book in science of hell Bukhari is
kuitar boots are head but getting back
to our point you know one of the
individuals that was famous for using
the term ruble beer and using a small C
fat was none other than imam abu hanifa
rahim allah so if you look at his feet
absurd in both of these books that are
attributed to him you'll find that he
uses these terms that he used it Olivia
and uses a smile was he fat likewise if
you want to find all three of them
together
there's a famous humbly scholar by the
name of a blue bottle and a Kabaddi
emblem bata an acai berry who wrote a
book called and a banner and in this
book on ivana he mentions specifically
this categorization or classification
after his being divided into three parts
after he'd being divided into three
parts
now for our focus tonight bit in the
heat on what we want to focus on is that
an hour day and age you'll notice that
Muslims are suffering in all three
fronts that during the time of departure
setup there weren't any issues
pertaining to the road will be of allah
subhanho wa taala that even the Quraysh
even the disbelievers they recognize
that it will be of Allah subhanAllah
Allah what they had an issue with was
the Oulu here the worshipping of allah
span Wattana alone and even the names
and attributes they didn't have so much
an issue with then as time goes on
you'll notice that as more sects are
created more you know problems are
created for the Muslims so in our day
and age when we look at these three
fronts the lordship of allah subhanaw
taala the worship of allah subhana wa
ta'ala and the names and attributes of
allah so allah you'll notice that the
Creed of Alastor no l-jamaa
is actually being attacked on all three
four frets so in terms of rubia
you look at the concept of atheism that
subhanAllah for the vast majority of
wild mankind has existed they have
believed in some sort of deity they are
believed in some sort of Lord it might
have been a tree it might have been a
statue it might have been the Sun but
they believed in some sort of God now it
has come to such a degree that
subhanAllah you know our intelligence
has reached this level that we are able
to self sustain ourselves we no longer
need to believe in the Lord and that is
where you know the onset of atheism
comes into play then the second front is
worshiping allah subhanho wa taala along
it is miraculous that subhanAllah in the
lands of disbelief
you're more likely to find two heat than
you are to find sorry than the lines of
the Muslims that if you go to places
like Pakistan go to places like India go
to play
like Egypt that while these are the
lands of the Muslims these are usually
the lands that are filled with the most
rampant acts of Schick so they're going
to graves you know calling upon the dead
calling upon Ali calling upon her saying
you know doing all other sorts and acts
of shift and then you get the third
element which is belief in the names and
attributes of allah subhana wa ta'ala
and this is i would say perhaps the most
the least relevant of them because an
individual can have some mistakes in
this level and still be within the fault
of islam so we're not going to focus too
much on those however in the first two
believing in Allah subhana WA Ta'ala as
a creator and a sustainer and worshiping
allah subhanho wa taala alone these are
the two most integral parts of our faith
in allah subhana wa ta'ala in las manos
an so now the question arises that what
is the Islamic approach to refuting
atheism what is the Islamic approach to
refuting atheism so when you look inside
the Quran you actually notice that
inside of the Quran there are very very
few verses that actually tackle atheism
that actually tackle atheism because
atheism whenever its very essence has
two problems with it number one
history is against it so if you were to
look at the history of humanity you will
see that the history of humanity has
always been that they believed in some
sort of creator and some sort of
sustainer yes from the Sun perspective
women on agree with it but they have
always believed in it and then number
two is that even logically speaking it
doesn't make sense and that is why allah
subhanho wa taala doesn't even bother
entertaining this concept unless my note
rather concludes the argument you know
with one simple verse i'm Hunico nana la
semana he says in this verse in surah -
thought if i'm not mistaken that were
they created out of nothing or were they
themselves the creators meaning that is
one of two things number one either you
came out there with nothing and no one
can ever say that or number two you
yourselves are the creator and you know
that's not possible as well how can
nothing create nothing
so Islamically you know la semana wa
taala didn't even tackle those arguments
because of how fallacious and illogical
they actually are
now in terms of you know what what is
the history of atheism I can't remember
when we discuss this we've discussed
this previously before when did we
discuss it I can't remember when we
discussed it but in a very I think in
the top surah fatiha
we discussed the history of atheism that
in terms of a historical perspective the
first time you start seeing atheism
actually being documented is in the 19th
century is in the 19th century and the
individual who actually first documents
it is Percy Shelley and if I'm not
mistaken it was in 1839 that she passed
away 1839 Percy Shelley now Percy
Shelley it's very interesting to look at
her family situation she had a sister by
the name of Mary Shelley who can
remembers who Mary Shelley was who's
Mary Shelley Frankenstein exactly Mary
Shelley writes Frankenstein now what is
this whole theory behind Frankenstein
that mankind becomes a creator and then
this creator comes to destroy you know
mankind that's a you know the the
situation going on over there then you
have Percy Shelley her whole phenomenon
is that you know what there is no God
all together and there is no concept of
creation now she doesn't go into like
three theories of evolution and you know
Darwinism in any of that stuff but her
main focus is that mankind has no God
now what's really interesting to look at
is the role that family played in both
of their lives that coming from very
troubled homes very abusive homes you
know problems with the clergy in their
community that the clergy was known to
do evil and you know wicked things and
this is what led both of them to write
the things that they wrote so with love
themselves the first time you're
actually seeing this is in the 19th
century and prior to that there's like
nothing officially documented that
someone is denying the existence of a
creator and then after that you find you
know other examples like Nisha
he has his famous piece on the day that
we killed God the day that we killed God
and so panel that is such a very
interesting piece to read because it
shows on how you know the individuals
that know 12 too much into the
of the dunya they were the first people
to kill off God himself that they're
like we have everything that we need
we're in no need of a God religion is
for the poor folk only so this is like a
brief introduction into atheism itself
and Islam from our perspective in the
Quran doesn't tackle atheism head-on
because we don't actually believe it to
be a valid point of view we don't
believe it to be a valid point of view
because historically it's you know
fallacious and likewise even from a
logical perspective it is fallacious now
what does the Quran actually focus on it
focuses on worshipping Allah subhana WA
Ta'ala alone so you'll notice that the
vast majority of verses in the Quran
that talk about her head that talk about
Iman are talking about allah subhana wa
ta'ala alone so let us conclude
tonight's discussion with with light
Allah and obviously this will be at
least a two or three part halakha as you
can see is talking about some of the
dangers of shirk and then what is the
shape that we are required to stay away
from the first danger of shirk that we
come to see and we use shirk as a
negator of tawheed so if the heat is
what we are commanded with in terms of
believing in Allah subhana WA Ta'ala
is giving a right which is
exclusive to Allah - other than Allah
subhana WA Ta'ala so Sheikh is giving a
right which is exclusive to Allah
subhana WA Ta'ala to other than Allah
subhana WA Ta'ala so the first danger of
Sheikh is that Allah subhana WA Ta'ala
will not forgive shirk so allah subhana
wa ta'ala he tells us in verses 48 and
116 of Surat Annisa then indeed Allah
subhana WA Ta'ala does not forgive that
shirk should be done with him but rather
he forgives everything else to whom he
pleases and was important to understand
from this verse is that as long as an
individual doesn't die on the state of
shirk he can still be forgiven if he
repents he accepts Islam then be denied
Allah he is forgiven however if an
individual dies upon a state of shirk
then this individual will not be
pardoned and he is internally condemned
to the Hellfire so allah subhana wa
ta'ala does not forgive it number two is
that allah subhana wa ta'ala he
nullified
a person's deeds because of the share
key that
they commit and what's interesting about
this verse in surah zumar is that allah
subhanho wa taala he addresses the
messenger of allah sallallahu alayhi wa
sallam directly he says what occurred Oh
heya la querella Nadine I'm in public
that indeed it has been revealed to you
O Muhammad SAW Allah - Allah as well as
the prophets and messengers before you
when instructed upon a monocular -
Coonan Amin al-husseini
that if you were to ever commit
with Allah subhana WA Ta'ala that even
your deeds were would be considered null
and void and you would be from the
losers
now obviously the messenger of allah
solomon all the prophets we could never
commit shirk with allah subhanho wa
taala because that is their role as a
prophet and messenger but Allah subhana
WA Ta'ala is showing the severity of the
threat then if the prophets and
messengers were able to commit check
even with the myriad and plethora of
their deeds even if they were to commit
all of their deeds would be
rendered null and void so a shirk
nullifies all of a person's good deeds
it nullifies all of a person's good
deeds number three is that almost
vanuatu odda prohibits seeking
forgiveness for the mushrikun allah
subhanho wa taala
prohibits seeking forgiveness for the
mushrikun so Allah Muhammad Ali he tells
us answer to Toba my cannellini be when
the dina am i know i yes third few
little mistake in that it is not
befitting for the messenger of allah
sallallahu sallam or the believers to
seek forgiveness for the mushrikeen
so these are some of the severity that
you see that subhanAllah
it prevents Allah so Allah will not
forgive them it renders their deeds
null and void you cannot seek
forgiveness for them and the for the the
fourth and last one will mentioned is
that Allah subhana WA Ta'ala prohibits
Jenna for that individual allah subhanho
wa taala prohibits Jenna for the
individual that commits shirk with Allah
subhana WA Ta'ala and I'm trying to
remember the verse in surah maidah right
now live in LA he forgot Haram Allah
Allah agenda that indeed the one who
commits with Allah subhana WA
Ta'ala then Allah subhana WA Ta'ala
prohibits for him paradise Allah subhana
WA Ta'ala prohibits for him paradise so
these are like four major issues that
show us the severity now when Allah
subhana WA Ta'ala is talking about
Sheikh
in these matters he's talking about with
allah subhanaw taala talks about in
these matters he's talking about those
who actually worship other than Allah
subhana WA Ta'ala so the crux of our
focus is that when you study to hit the
crux of the focus of tawheed the crux of
Islam the cream of Islam is all about
worshipping allah subhana wa ta'ala
alone and that is why when you look at
you know a little bit know a man when he
went out in his expedition that they
asked him you know what is the message
that you have come with he said we have
come with the message to take the people
out of the worship of the creation to
the worship of the Creator and that by
its essence is what Islam is all about
that worshipping Allah subhana WA Ta'ala
alone without any partners worshiping
Allah subhana WA Ta'ala alone without
any partners so when we talk about
belief in allah subhana wa ta'ala
we'll summarize this again it means
believing in the oneness of allah
subhana wa ta'ala in his rubia
or in his ability to create in his
ability to sustain and alternate the day
and the night and maintain the heavens
and the earth the number two it is all
here that allah subhanaw taala is so
right to be worshipped alone they're all
acts of worship should be done for Allah
subhana WA Ta'ala alone those acts of
worship can constitute our doha our
reliance our hope our fear are all for
Allah Subhanahu WA Ta'ala and then the
third and last element is our belief in
allah subhana wa ta'ala in terms of the
names and attributes that one of the
most important elements of getting to
know allah subhana wa ta'ala and
building our relationship with allah
subhanho wa taala
is getting to know the names and
attributes and that is why allah subhana
wa ta'ala practically concludes almost
every eye in the quran with one of his
names or attributes so there's almost
every single verse except that you'll
find one of the names and attributes of
allah subhana wa ta'ala and be denied
anna next to is halakha will continue on
with the rest of the hadith we'll
continue on with the rest of the hadith
one open up the floor for three
questions being in the height sauna
go ahead
correct
excellent so when we talk about the
issue of Iman there's two main groups
that came about
Anderson was always in the middle so
whenever you want to look at what we
will call heresy ology you'll find these
sects will go to the extremes and I have
seen there's always in the middle so the
extreme that came out first was the
extreme of the college they said that
anyone that performs a major sin then
this takes them outside of the fold of
Islam and now as you study in physics
every action creates an equivalent or
greater reaction and this is what
happens with the sect's and that any
time someone went to an extreme another
set comes about going to the exact
opposite extreme so the extreme that
came out from the college was the group
called the more Jia and the militia were
of different levels the mogea were of
different levels the worst form of area
that came about was those individuals
that said that a man is the snick only
that a man is to know the existence of
allah subhanho wa taala
now I want you to think of some of the
ramifications of this that if an
individual says that a man is only to
know the existence of Allah subhana WA
Ta'ala
this would make Shaitaan a movement it
would make sure our movement every
capital Allah called the caffeine in the
Quran now becomes a moment due to this
definition so these are the two extremes
that came about now when you look at the
aspect of al-jarrah energy actually gets
better the closer they get closer to a
solution so the worst form of air just
to say that it is only you know and
Maori for to know Allah and then it is a
stick and then those that said that you
know you only have to state with the
tongue even if you don't say that even
if you don't followed up with any
actions now what happened with imam abu
hanifa rahim allah it is said that he
actually had his own form of observe and
this is known as area of the fokaha or
jaw of the folk aha and what happened
over here and ebon abdul rahim allah
explains this is that this was a
terminology between the Hanafi scholars
in a national jamaat in terminology but
not or in an actuality in terms of
difference of opinion so what
the Hanafi Oh Lamar did was rather than
making actions a pillar of Eman they're
making it like a pillar of Iman they
said that it is a man with no itself so
when you look at there no Akkad of Iman
they'll have the exact same in the
rocket of Iman as we do however they
just said that actions were not a part
of Iman and this goes back to a part of
their belief that in fact Eman it
doesn't increase and decrease a man is
stagnant right according to them that
either you have a man or you don't
all of this comes down to a matter of
perspective so if you look at the
observers attributed to amount of hanifa
the first and most important thing to
understand is that even up the bottom he
mentions they mama honey for repented
from this the second thing that he
mentions is that even this type of java
fokaha it is a minor type of Perga it's
not a major type of urja that you know
where there's a mistake in terminology
concept itself okay number one let's
look at the terminology of the Quran
let's look at the terminology of the
Quran so the concept that we're
referring to the Quran refers to it as
an ahkam Baha'i demands Allah ruling by
what other than what Allah Spanos Allah
revealed now allah subhanho wa taala in
talking about this concept and hokum
bhai demands of allah he gives you know
one of three scenarios
he says wa man lam yahkum bima anzala
fauna Iike home of animal welfare second
well Kathryn so in surah maida around
verse 44 all of these three
categories are mentioned so the
individual that does not rule by what
allah subhana wa tada revealed he will
fall under one of these three categories
so to be extremely unjust for me to take
your question right now without going
into specifics and say that you know
they're all covered or they're all
volume one or they're all fascicle
the sharia did not come you know as
something which is black and white but
rather the Sharia came to accommodate
towards all situations now what is
important to understand over here and
I'll speak at a very practical level
what ends up happening over here is that
practicing Muslims they run away from
politics practicing Muslims throughout
our history of the last 200 years ever
since in our country's colonized we've
separated Islam from the state that
we've said it's time is what we practice
inside the Masjid we practice inside our
homes but when it comes to ruling our
countries we will rule by secular
democracies will rule by you no other
form of you know theocracies but we will
not rule by the Sharia with an of itself
that is what is end up happening so now
when the practicing people run away from
practicing in politics we open up the
floor for you know terrible terrible
people to take over our countries that's
what ends up happening I must mention
one particular you know situation itself
generally speaking we don't speak about
politics but one particular thing where
this is like in Pakistan so if we have
any Pakistanis you know no offense to
any of you guys but you know they're
having like a meeting a short meeting
and you know one of the guys says you
know why don't you conclude the meeting
or start off the meeting by reciting
Colville our heads right and the guy
could not even reset kalla head properly
and I said smiler let's leave aside the
issue of you know what is the ruling on
you know ruling by other than the law of
allah subhanho wa taala
this individual does not even know so a
class you know has much bigger issues to
deal with our issue is how did we allow
him to get into power how did we allow
him to get into power right so our first
mistake is practicing Muslims need to
educate themselves about politics and a
number to see what they can do and
actually to make the situation better
number three is that Al Hasan al Basri
in as reporting that avocado web Mossad
he establishes a very important
principle that Allah subhana WA Ta'ala
he always sends rulers that are barfi
for the people rulers that are befitting
for the people meaning that when the
people abandon the religion of allah
subhanho wa taala that is when allah
subhana wa ta'ala sends terrible rulers
upon them right this is why if you look
in the door of Connaught one of the
doors that The Messenger of Allah saw
salem used to make wada at Wahid Nabila
novena maan liya Haruka FINA when IR
hamona
that due to the sins that we commit do
not place an authority those sorry do
not place above us those in authority do
that do not have fear of you nor have
mercy upon us now what's interesting is
what the messenger of allah says i'll
starts off with la well at Wahid not be
the novena that don't hold us
accountable due to our sins meaning that
when the Muslim Ummah leaves off their
sins it is that that time business logic
allah that allah subhanho wa taala will
restore golden price rulers amongst them
so now in terms of these situations
there's no overnight solution you know
if you were to say that you revolt
against your leadership that's not the
answer because up until you have a
qualified leader to replace them with
you're just creating more happy you're
creating more problems and having a bad
leader in position is better than having
no leader at all having a bad leader at
least having a bad leader is better than
having no leader at all so I would say
as Muslims let's start from the bottom
up that let's work on improving
ourselves first let's fix our
relationship with Allah subhanAllah to
Allah let's educate ourselves about
politics and build enlighten let's
prepare the future generations of
Muslims that are educated about their
Deen and educated about their dunya to
take all of these roles of leadership
banana hits allah and allah subhanaw
taala knows best
a las - Allah knows best I mean and
every part of the Muslim or of the
situation is bad you know there's no
part of the Muslim world where you know
people are like al hamdulillah we're
blessed with a great leader that's not
that's just the reality of our situation
and what I'm saying is that the answer
to this is not you know hey let's go do
this all the problems are going to be
fixed it's a long-term solution where we
each of and everyone must play a role
fixing our own sins educating our
children and breathe in light Allah that
is the solution within light are the
moving forward we'll take one last
question actually both of you had your
hands up so I'll take two of the last
questions and then we'll conclude go
ahead
as what anything
this is what the Quran came to refute a
man can never just be in the heart like
the reality of Iman is that if it exists
in the heart it has to manifest itself
on the lips there's no such thing as an
individual that only has a man in his
heart and it never manifests itself on
the lips right so even if you look at
the individual and that he accepted
Islam and then he went out stew into the
battlefield during the time when for
Salam
he went into paradise right it was not
narrated that he prayed any prayers
however he did say the Shahada and at
the same time he did go out on the
battlefield so these are you know
manifestations of Iman so for now in
order for a person to truly have a man
he has to pray and this is why in the
Quran you'll notice that allah subhanaw
taala did not call any act of
righteousness a man other than the Salah
so if you look at the history of Salah
when the Qibla was changed from
Jerusalem to Mecca the Sahaba of the
Elohim they became worried that you know
although all of our previous prayers
they're going to be lost
Allah subhana WA Ta'ala when he refers
to this concept he says that he didn't
say that your prayers will not be lost
he said that your Eman will not be in
vain write your email will not be in
vain so Allah subhana WA Ta'ala himself
in the Quran refers to Saleh as Eman and
like I mentioned that our beloved
Mustafa he mentions that the Sahaba of
the law in whom did not consider any act
to be an act of disbelief other than the
Salah itself so the Salah if anything is
the most integral part of Iman we can
say that you can become less exact
sadistic with other elements of Islam
but once you become lackadaisical with
your Salah that is when you're bordering
disbelief that is when you're bordering
disbelief good
so what about them what are you asking
are the Muslim kind of like that so from
our perspective we're not in the
position to judge you're right our
judgment makes no difference whatsoever
whether we call it Sarah that Muslim or
kafir is irrelevant our responsibility
is we need to give these people Dawa how
do we get these people to start praying
and that is what our focus should be
that we each have family members that
aren't prank our focus should not be hey
your cafe are going to the Hellfire our
focus should be you know what can I do
to help you start praying you know let
me know what that is and let's work
together towards that so that's what the
focus should be so I would say that
ignore the issue of are the Muslims or
non-muslims because that that issue
becomes like a moot point it doesn't
have any significance in our discussion
what hour is important to our discussion
is what can we do to help to encourage
these people to start praying and a loss
final tally knows best I said this is
the safest opinion from the safest of it
the term I use was negligible so if he
intentionally neglects any of them then
yes this would take him to the Hellfire
no that's not true so when you look at
the hadith where that document that
talked about when I'm young man I've got
to let her hate that he didn't do any
good except for it's I hate the scholars
mentioned that when the messenger of our
son uses the term to heed what is in
referring to over here is that he
fulfilled the five pillars of Islam and
he didn't commit shirk with Allah
subhana WA Ta'ala so yes yeah he did
commit a lot of sins
however he did not commit shirk with
allah subhana wa ta'ala and that is what
kept him inside the fold of Islam
fantastic excellent very good question
so that hadith is authentic that hadith
is authentic however we have a principle
in Islam that when you look at texts
they are not taken
they're not taken in an isolated fashion
but rather all of the texts need to be
combined together before we derive an
analysis so if you were to look at all
the text of the Quran and send that
together you will notice that all the
texts combined they indicate that if an
individual has opportunity and he
doesn't do any form of good deeds then
this individual will not be from the
inhabitants of paradise however if an
individual has no opportunity and the
only thing he can do before he dies he
says a shadow a light and a lot of
shadow on mohammed rasoolallah then be
denied ala this person will go to
paradise so the issue here is the issue
of opportunity and this is how the
scholars interpreted that hadith that
even you know the last individual he did
nothing of goodness except that he said
the student of Allah illallah muhammadan
rasulallah right and that was the issue
of opportunity that he had consummate
his whole life committing sin and that
he only had with him this one statement
of lion Allah Muhammad Rasul Allah which
negated the shark so he had sin but he
didn't have and that one statement
is what saved him from an eternity and
the Hellfire sure
fantastic
so from an Islamic perspective we
actually don't believe that he'll hide
exists so in height is what we refer to
as atheism so from an Islamic
perspective when you look at atheism
what actually happens right an atheist
says that I do not believe in any God
now from him this aspect of God he is
referring to our Rob as someone that
created him now the Islamic concept of
Rob is not just about creation but it is
about sustaining it is about more
importantly the one that we will obey so
what is the one that you will obey right
so from an Islamic perspective when you
look at the atheist we even consider the
atheist a Mushnik why because he's
taking his own desires as his Lord so if
you look inside sort of Jesse at verse
number 23 allah subhanho wa taala he
tells us that have you seen the one who
takes his own desires as his lord and
this is what happens with the atheist so
even the mulehead he will be considered
a mushrik from that perspective so
there's no such thing as a person just
being an atheist without committing
shift but in reality we would believe
that in order to exist you have to be
obeying something either you're a slave
to Allah you are slave to something of
this dunya or you're a slave to your own
desires those are the only three
possibilities that exist yeah analyst
panel today knows best we'll conclude
with that panic alarm ob Chanukah shadow
Allah in the highlands stuff haruka wa
atubu ilayh
you